# scipm.orthospellscipm.orthospell is a [scipm](https://github.com/aminassian/scipm) packageBased on: Urs Eberle's orthospell <http://tools.diorama.ch/orthospell.html> (GNU GPL v2)> ONLY **WINDOWS**## Install```cd myScipmProjectnpm install scipm.extman --savenpm install scipm.orthospell --savescipm build[restart SciTE]```## Tool and context menu- ``Orthospell > Toggle Spelling`` (F9)- ``Orthospell > Dictionaries``## Use of scipm.orthospellIn SciTE’s Tools Menu (or context menu) you will now find entries like the following ``Orthospell > Toggle Spelling (F9)``.Pressing the F9 key, all unknown/misspelled words will be highlighted with a red underline.Double-clicking on a marked word will open a window with suggestions for correcting. Select the correct one with a double-click.Note: Making manual corrections does not reinvoke spell checking i.e. the red underline will stay until you reinvoke spell checking.## Show selected dictionary2 methods :- SciTE menu > ``Tools`` > ``Orthospell > Dictionaries`` and see ``(current)``- in SciTE’s Status Bar : add ``Dict: $(spell.dictlang)`` to your status bar definition in SciTE[Global|User].properties## Changing the default dictionarySciTE menu > ``Tools`` > ``Orthospell > Dictionaries`` and double click dictionary line to change```-- orthospell -- double click dictionary to change* English US (current)* en_AU* en_CA* en_GB* en_ZA* Français classique* fr-moderne* fr-reforme1990* fr-toutesvariantes```Or add the following line to your SciTEUser.properties file ``scipm.orthospell.dictname=<hunspell dict name>`` and restart SciTE. Example:```scipm.orthospell.dictname=fr-classique```## User DictionaryYou can add a user dictionary that contains the words you frequently use but that are not known to your standard dictionary.Add the following line to your SciTEUser.properties file ``scipm.orthospell.userdict=<user dictionary file>``. Example :```scipm.orthospell.userdict=$(SciteDefaultHome)\dict\project1.usrscipm.orthospell.userdict=C:\Users\Eberle\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Proof\user.dic```# Installing the Hunspell DictionariesThe default directory for the dictionary files ``aff`` and ``dic`` is the ``yourScipmProject/node_modules/scipm.orthospell/dict`` directory.A custom subdirectory can be defined in your SciTEUser.properties file by adding the following line ``scipm.orthospell.dictpath=$(SciteDefaultHome)\<name of directory>``.scipm.orthospell uses the Hunspell dictionaries. You can update/add them from: http://extensions.openoffice.org.> Note: oxt files are zip-files. You only need the aff and dic filesscipm.orthospell includes:- en_AU (Australian)- en_CA (Canadian) (updated: 2015-02-15)- en_GB (British) (updated: 2015-04-01)- en_US (American) (updated: 2015-02-15)- en_ZA (South African)- fr-classique- fr-moderne- fr-reforme1990- fr-toutesvariantes## Using Multiple LanguagesSimply add all the dictionary names you want to use (separated by ``|``) to the scipm.orthospell.dictname parameter in your SciTEUser.properties file. Default : ``en_US|en_AU|en_CA|en_GB|en_ZA|fr-classique|fr-moderne|fr-reforme1990|fr-toutesvariantes``. Example:```scipm.orthospell.dictname=en_US|fr-classique|de_DE|en-GB```Make sure you spell the names correctly (some use a hyphen, others an underline)> NOTE: scipm.orthospell assumes that all hunspell dictionaries, except French, use an ISO code page. If your dictionary uses a different one, you must change the setting inside the ``scipm.orthospell/scite/main.lua``’s language section. The code page of the dictionary is defined in the aff file (look for SET at the beginning)## Source, Links ...- ``scipm.orthospell`` based on: Urs Eberle's orthospell <http://tools.diorama.ch/orthospell.html> (GNU GPL v2)- ``orthospell`` based on: Matt White's luahunspell <http://luahunspell.googlecode.com> (GNU GPL v2)- en dictionary : http://extensions.openoffice.org/en/project/english-dictionaries-apache-openoffice- fr dictionary : http://extensions.openoffice.org/en/project/french-dictionaries